Hey, what's up? So, I did a debate
recently with my friend Marcus Hutchkins
and it was a really cool conversation.
We basically had a great discussion and
uh I think we learned a lot about each
other's positions,
but we were still very much in opposite
camps and we still remain so right now.
So, I I wanted to post something because
uh I've been working a whole bunch with
uh a bunch of projects using AI for them
over the last like week and a half
and I just wanted to sort of offer as
evidence and what I believe is pretty
convincing evidence that what I was
saying in that video is absolutely
correct.
So I basically have done a bunch of
projects that would have required
probably dozens or hundreds of
consulting hours if I were to pay like
developers to go and actually do this
work. It would have taken them so long
to do this. So I want to step through
some of this work. So the first one here
is retagging my entire site. So, I've
got like 3,62 posts over 27 years. And
if you look at these tags here, culture,
technology, society, business, uh, cyber
security, philosophy,
look at the steps that you have to
actually do to rettag a website. Okay,
I basically had AI go and read all 3060.
Well, this is the 60-second post, but go
read all these posts, okay? Understand
what they're about so that you can apply
the 20 tags that we have, okay? And then
and then of course push the changes,
whatever that that's automation
possible.
Um, but
let's just only look at number one,
okay? Go read 3,000 blog posts.
How many people would I have to assign
to do that? And obviously I could do it
and I was doing it like haphazardly one
at a time or whatever, but I couldn't
set aside a couple of weeks to go reread
all my posts and retag them. Okay. So
just I I would argue it already takes
intelligence to read a blog post
and assign tags to it.
Just to read a blog post and figure out
what it's about. I think automatically
hits the bar for intelligence, right?
And and that's really what the core
debate was between Marcus and I is like,
is this intelligent or not? He's
basically saying AI is autocomplete
and it's definitely not intelligent. And
I'm saying kind of the opposite. All
right, so the next one is bring my
images home. So over the years I've had
like these images hosted on tons of
other like CMS's
and uh it's just been nasty, right? So,
I've got them on Beehive. I mean, this
is like probably 10 or 15 different
platform changes. So, all the URLs are
different. They're pointing to different
places. Some of them are broken. Some of
them, you know, you know, don't work
anymore, don't exist anymore, whatever.
So, go find all the instances of images
that pointed to any place other than
directly, you know, canonical at my own
domain. Uh, download that image. Okay.
go get it, rename it, resize it,
optimize it, put it in my new location
where it's supposed to be, then go find
the blog post that it applies to and
update the blog post and then push the
changes.
How many of those things
How many of those things require
intelligence? I I mean, you could This
is not an automatable thing. I mean I I
guess some parts of this are right. Um I
mean I guess I guess in some ways a
download the image. Okay. Ultimately
this is like a renaming thing and I
mentioned this earlier. This is like a
renaming thing and it's the type of
thing that's going to be extremely
fragile and likely to break.
So it it's not a trivial thing. And you
know writing the code to do this then
you have to test it. You have to make
sure you have a backup. Like all of
that, like again, this is non-trivial.
You have to give it to an actual team or
a really skilled developer and then have
them come back, you know, dozens of
hours later and probably hundreds or
thousands of dollars that you spend on
having them do this because it is not
trivial. I would say that it doesn't
purely require human intelligence. It
requires a bunch of coding. So I would
say it requires the human intelligence
to actually write the code to do it.
Okay, next one. Converting super nasty
HTML bundles to markdown. Okay, so this
is an example of a post that came over
from Markdown because it was a
newsletter.
And look at this. You've got these
nested divs, nested spans. This is
trying to preserve the content
formatting of the newsletter, right? And
it just goes on and on. Like these
things are just massive, massive bundles
of crap. And so I couldn't just go in
there and edit something. And I I damn
sure wasn't getting where I was supposed
to be, which was the clean markdown,
right? This is the whole point of moving
to my new static site is I have very
very clean um
markdown now. And so any of those posts
that came over from Beehive or from a
bunch of other places, they're just
really nasty, full of HTML, like
deprecated old HTML from other
platforms, but especially from Beehive.
So what this thing is doing is actually
going and getting that entire thing,
reading the entire thing, understanding
what is
nasty HTML wrapper content. And by the
way, these things are massive, right? So
it's not just a tiny little thing. Um, I
mean, we're talking about hundreds or
thousands of lines of code. Um, ju just
to have the content inside of there
somewhere. So you have to read the
entire thing. You have to pull out the
content. You have to not get rid of any
of the content. You can't lose any. You
can't change any.
And then you have to write a completely
new markdown file. Oh, and mark it up
with my new styling and formatting for
the site. Like I have this thing on the
left here that's called an aside.
It it has to know to go and do that. So
again, I've got to give this to a
consultancy. I've got to give this to
someone on Upwork or on Fiverr. So
looking at this list here, these do
require, I would argue, intelligence.
Completely rewrite the content. The the
key point here that's requires the
intelligence. You have to read the thing
and know the difference between content
and wrapper and bloat and crap that
needs to be taken out. That is not an
automatable thing. You can't write a
script to do that. Right? So, so the
takeaway for me here is oh and by the
way this is an example of the uh
this is an example of like uh in this
case it was claude code uh that was
running but this is just an example for
people who don't know me who are like
hey is he is this really happening
you know did AI actually do this for
them yes this is uh some some of the
evidence for that but anyone who's done
technical work around maintaining a
website or complex HTML will instantly
recognize in my my opinion how tedious
and nasty this work is and how much it
requires an actual human to do, right?
Even for the task that somebody could
code, it would still be crap work,
right? Um if you gave it to someone and
like it's likely to mess up your site
because they will get one of the scripts
wrong, it'll rewrite the wrong thing,
whatever. Like I'm sure if you've done
this before, you totally get what I'm
saying. It also did the testing
afterwards. It plus it wrote the code
for the translations and the testing.
Then it executed it. Then it monitored
the status and showed me how much how
much time it was taking to get done.
And it it's just insane. So, hundreds of
hours and thousands of dollars of work.
And this is just me doing it part-time
over a few days, just just telling AI to
go do it, and it just did it itself.
There was some steering obviously, but
not during the task. During the task, it
was absolutely doing those things that
required intelligence. So my argument
here and I would say my challenge to
Marcus and more importantly than Marcus
and myself, it's it's more so to people
who think like Marcus. Okay, I don't see
how it's possible to argue that this is
not intelligence.
What we just did here, what I just
showed you here is not possible to do
without either manual coding
from an actual human, right? or manual
actual work. Forget the coding. You
can't automate it. So you can't just
code around it. In most of the cases
that I showed,
manual work to go read and understand a
thing so you can apply the correct tags.
What other technology can read and
understand a post and determine what
tags apply to it? Don't you have to
understand if it's philosophy or if it's
information security or whatever? Right?
you you can't just grap and said right
you can't just count the number of
instances of the word that is not
meaning right so I I would argue
technology capable of doing cognitive
tasks that could previously only be done
by a human I think that is a good
definition of AI and I think a good
definition of intelligence is
being able to take your knowledge that
you have and apply to new situations.
Okay. So in this case the knowledge that
it has is what the word info sec means
what the word cyber security means what
the word AI means. It has to read the
knowledge. It has to read the content of
the page and determine based on its
knowledge. This is a new situation right
because it's never seen this blog post
before. a new situation is it's
presented with a new input, a new
challenge, a new problem and it's
determining whether or not it's going to
apply
one or more of these 20 different tags.
Right? So I would say that is clearly
intelligence.
Right? That's my definition for
intelligence and this is my definition
for AI here. Now Marcus disagrees with
this. He thinks that it's more of a
intelligence is more of a completely new
thing like EMC uh E= MC² or the
invention of the wheel or whatever.
Right? And I've got multiple problems
with this. One is it devalues
99% of cognitive work being done by
people. Most people are not inventing
new physics, right? And it also implies
that well yeah but for the people who
are doing that 99.9%
and I don't want to put words in his
mouth but this it feels like this is the
argument that he's making the people who
are just you know reading blog posts and
assigning tags and you know doing
regular office work they're not doing
real intelligence things they're not
doing real creative things
and it's just iterative
or whatever, you know, like what he's
accusing AI of being. And I'm like,
that's what people are getting paid for.
The whole reason I'm concerned about
this is because this tech can do that
work, right? I don't care about this
definition because, you know, some
random reason to care about a technical
definition. Who cares about a technical
definition? The reason I care about the
definition is because how it interacts
with the actual world. The way this
interacts with the actual world is that
AI that did all that work which I just
showed
that can now replace a team of
developers getting paid hundreds or
thousands of dollars to do that work,
right? Or a team of consultants or or
whatever you want to call them. people
who have to go and actually do this
coding and actually do this reading and
actually do this tag assigning this
mundane work that like that that mundane
work is what most people do right it's
how they pay their bills it's how they
feed their families so this is why I'm
concerned about this th this is why
I am objecting to calling this
autocomplete
autocomplete I mean Can autocomplete do
what we just saw? No, it can't. So I I
think he's essentially defining
intelligence
in such a restrictive way that it's
making it useless, right? And I I don't
think we need a new word for this. Like
what do you call it when
you know let's say there's a new
technology? Forget AI. Let's just call
it a new technology that can replace
you know 80 to 99% of cognitive work
done by humans which we won't call
intelligence
right for his sake what do you want to
call that like cognitive work
replacement technology
I don't see the need for a new word it's
called AI we should just use that